README.md, before:

TelegramBotApiBundle
===================

A symfony wrapper bundle for  [Telegram Bot API](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api).

## Install

Via Composer

``` bash
composer require ericomgroup/telegram-bot-api-bundle
```

Edit your app/AppKernel.php to register the bundle in the registerBundles() method as above:


```php
class AppKernel extends Kernel
{

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            // register the bundle here
            new EricomGroup\TelegramBotApiBundle\TelegramBotApiBundle()
        );
    }
}
```

## Configure the bundle

This bundle was designed to just work out of the box. The only thing you have to configure in order to get this bundle up and running is your bot [token](https://core.telegram.org/bots#botfather).

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml

# Telegram bot configuration:
telegram_bot_api:
    # Your bot token: (required)
    token: 1234567:kqjlf213*****123
    # Your bot username:
    username: symfony_bot

    # Development section:
    development:
        # Telegram user_id of developers accounts
        developers_id: [1234567, 87654321]
        # If this mode is enabled, the robot only responds to the developers
        maintenance:
            enable: true
            text: "The robot is being repaired! Please come back later."
```

If you want to use web-hook, just run tish command:

```bash
$ php bin/console telegram:set:webhook

```
*note: Telegram do not support http, your site should have valid SSL (HTTPS).*

## Usage


Wherever you have access to the service container :
```php
<?php
    // get the telegram api as a service
    $bot = $this->container->get('telegram_bot_api');

    // test the API by calling getMe method
    $user = $bot::getMe()->getResult();

?>
```
If you have Web Hook enabled, you can receive this response:
```php
$botHelper = $this->container->get('telegram_bot_api.helper');

# return the response text:
$botHelper->getMessage()->getText(); 

# return the response the user id:
$botHelper->getFrom()->getId();
```
## Next...

Please refer to [Telegram Bot API Official Document](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api) for getting infomration about available methods and other informations:

## Troubleshooting

If you did all the configurations correctly but still getting errors (Http error 500) even on getMe method, it might be because of SSL Verification. Please make sure you have up-to-date CA root certificate bundle to be used with cURL.

You can configure you CA root certificate bundle by:

 1. Downloading up-to-date cacert.pem file from cURL website and
 2. Setting a path to it in your php.ini file, e.g. on Windows:

 `curl.cainfo=c:\php\cacert.pem`

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Added instructions for sending a message back to the user, fixed some typo's, added reference to online SSL-checker

README.md, after:

TelegramBotApiBundle
===================

A symfony wrapper bundle for  [Telegram Bot API](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api).

## Install

Via Composer

``` bash
composer require ericomgroup/telegram-bot-api-bundle
```

Edit your app/AppKernel.php to register the bundle in the registerBundles() method as above:


```php
class AppKernel extends Kernel
{

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            // register the bundle here
            new EricomGroup\TelegramBotApiBundle\TelegramBotApiBundle()
        );
    }
}
```

## Configure the bundle

This bundle was designed to just work out of the box. The only thing you have to configure in order to get this bundle up and running is your bot [token](https://core.telegram.org/bots#botfather).

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml

# Telegram bot configuration:
telegram_bot_api:
    # Your bot token: (required)
    token: 1234567:kqjlf213*****123
    # Your bot username:
    username: symfony_bot

    # Development section:
    development:
        # Telegram user_id of developers accounts
        developers_id: [1234567, 87654321]
        # If this mode is enabled, the robot only responds to the developers
        maintenance:
            enable: true
            text: "The robot is being repaired! Please come back later."
```

If you want to use web-hook, just run tish command:

```bash
$ php bin/console telegram:set:webhook

```
*note: Telegram do not support http, your site should have valid SSL (HTTPS).*

## Usage

Wherever you have access to the service container :
```php
<?php
    // get the telegram api as a service
    $bot = $this->container->get('telegram_bot_api');

    // test the API by calling getMe method
    $user = $bot::getMe()->getResult();
```

If you have Web Hook enabled, you can receive this response:
```php
$botHelper = $this->container->get('telegram_bot_api.helper');

# get the text which was sent to the bot:
$botHelper->getMessage()->getText(); 

# get the chat_id which uniquely identifies this chat. 
# You need this id in order to send messages back
$chat_id = $botHelper->getFrom()->getId();
```

And what you've been waiting for: sending a message back to the user:
```php
$bot::sendMessage([
	'chat_id' => $chat_id,
	'message' => 'I hear you loud and clear!'
]);
```

## Next...

Please refer to [Telegram Bot API Official Document](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api) for getting information about available methods and other informations.

## Troubleshooting

If you did all the configurations correctly but still getting errors (Http error 500) even on getMe() method, it might be because of SSL Verification. Please make sure you have up-to-date CA root certificate bundle to be used with cURL.

You can configure you CA root certificate bundle by:

 1. Downloading up-to-date cacert.pem file from cURL website and
 2. Setting a path to it in your php.ini file, e.g. on Windows:

 `curl.cainfo=c:\php\cacert.pem`

You can test your SSL-setup online with this handy webtool on: [SSL Labs](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
